# Imported modules

## Introduction

We've learned how we can mock and spy local code. What about imported modules?

### Spying the module

In order to spy a module property, (named export), we need to import the entire module and then use `.spyOn()` in the particular property.

```js
import * as metrics from 'path/to/metrics'

// Spy the module property we want to assert
jest.spyOn(catcher, 'captureError')

captureError('Ups!')

expect(captureError).toHaveBeenCalledWith('Ups!')
```

### Mocking the module

Jest has [`jest.mock()`](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/mock-functions#mocking-modules). This automatically mock the entire module.

```js
import { captureError } from 'path/to/metrics'

// Jest mock automatically the whole module for us:
jest.mock('path/to/metrics')

// If needed, we can override a specific property
captureError.mockReturnValue('Sent')

captureError('Ups!')

expect(captureError).toHaveBeenCalledWith('Ups!')
expect(captureError).toHaveReturned('Sent')
```

### 💡 Spy vs Mock - When to to use each one:

Whenever possible, **prefer spies to mocks.** This will ensure that the (original) code under test works as expected. Remember: mocking is a trade-off. The more mocks the tests have, the far they get from reality. <!-- lol so deep -->

- **Use spys when** you want to verify that a side-effect was called as expected, without changing its original behavior.
- **Use mocks when** the module requires complex pre-setup, is slow to run or has undesired side effects (e.g. making network requests).
- **Use none of them** when you are trying to assert private methods (implementation details). Prefer to assert the final output instead.

## Exercise

In the file `snippets/pets.js`,
there's one last function left to be tested: `getPet()`. Write the tests needed to verify that the used module `metrics` was called properly.

Start by using the _spy_ approach.

**Test file:** `snippets/pets-module-spy.test.js`

## Bonus

### #1 Using _mock_ approach.

Now test the same module but using the mock approach. Use the file `snippets/pets-module-mock.test.js`,

### #2 Going further

## Going further

- [Doing Manual Mocks](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/manual-mocks)
- [How to partially mock a module](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/jest-object#jestrequireactualmodulename)
- [Create different mocks per file](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/jest-object#jestdomockmodulename-factory-options)
- [Spying a default export](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32891606/how-to-spy-on-a-default-exported-function)
