# Test double: Fake

## Introduction

Perhaps, this thought have crossed your mind:

> I'm mocking this [module-name] to make things easier, but now I'm no longer totally sure that the integration with it works as expected.

A fake can mitigate this worry and give us some extra confidence. Let's view a demo example:

In project X, there's a `metrics` module used a lot across the codebase, where `sendTrack()` method is called:

```js
// metrics.js
export function sendTrack(id, opts = {}) {
  // ...real implementation of this tracker...

  if (opts.data) {
    // ...do a lot but necessary stuff...
  }
}
```

In ordinary tests, we'd just mock the tracker. Mainly because its behavior is irrelevant to the test, and to prevent unnecessary extra work (e.g. doing calls to external API services)

```js
// MyComponent.test.js
import { sendTrack } from '/path/to/metrics'

jest.mock('/path/to/metrics')

it('registers a track on FAQ click', () => {
  // Arrange: render the component...
  // Act: Click the button ...

  // Assert: The tracker was called
  expect(sendTrack).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1)
  expect(sendTrack).toHaveBeenCalledWith('faq', {
    data: { origin: 'footer' },
  })
})
```

So far, so good, right?

Now, let's assume we had to change `sendTrack` arguments. The `option.data` was renamed to `option.details`.

Afterwards, we do a search for `sendTrack` and replace `data` by `details` where we can find it. But, unfortunately, some places migh escape us because we are humans after all. The tests are run and... the React component test passes because the `metrics` module was totally mocked! There's a silent bug going to production... 🐛

That's where a **fake** comes into action. **A fake is a simplified version of a original function.** A fake is a type of mock, a smarter one. Usually, its main concern is to validate the arguments passed to the method. If needed, they can also return dummy responses (stubs) based on the parameters.

```js
// __doubles__/metricsFake.js <-- Note the Fake suffix!

export function sendTrack(id, opts = {}) {
  // Validate that it received a mandatory id.
  if (typeof id !== String) {
    throw Error(`metricsFake sendTrack · id ${id} must be a String`)
  }

  // Extract all the expected keys...
  const { name, label, meta, meta, ...rest } = opts
  const unexpectedKeys = Object.keys(rest)

  // ... and thrown an error if something unexpected was received
  if (unexpectedKeys.length > 0) {
    throw Error(
      `metricsFake sendTrack · The keys "${unexpectedKeys}" are unexpected.`
    )
  }
}
```

With this fake created, let's use it in the test:

```js
import { sendTrack } from '/path/to/metrics'
import * as metricsFake from '/path/to/metricsFake'

jest.mock('/path/to/metrics')

// Mock the sendTrack with its faker!
sendTrack.mockImplementation(metricsFake.sendTrack)

// ...
```

When we re-run the tests, they will fail:

```bash
❌ 1 test failed: "registers a track on button click"

Error: metricsFake sendTrack · The keys "data" are unexpected.
```

That's cool hein? Now we are more confident about the mocks we did.

here's nothing wrong with having two versions of the same code. **Extra work? Yes. But the effort is low, and definetely it pays off in large codebases.**

## Exercise

Let's improve the tests made to the hook `useBoredList`. One of the modules mocked was the `metrics`, so that we can assert `sendTrack`.

Go there and update the `sendTrack` mock implementation with the respective fake. It's already created, you just need to import it.

Once that's done, that fake will reveal a broken test (a silent bug was discovered)! Your goal is to fix the component and the test!

**Important:** To ensure everyone is on the same page, use the file `useBoredList-metricsFake.test.js` for this exercise. But if you want to, you can use the previous exercise file. It's up to you ;)

<details>
  <summary>💡 Read Hint </summary>

Don't you know how to fix the bug? Go check `sendTrack` source code. You'll notice that it's expecting the key `special`. However, the component is sending a slightly different key. A typo needs to be fixed.

</details>

## Bonus

### #1 Create `useBoredList` hook

The `component/Footer` uses the hook `useBoredList`. A fellow colleague already started writing the component tests. They decide to mock the hook to keep things simple. A common trade-off, when the hook is complex.

However, new bugs can happen and the mock would hide them.

Your goal is to create a fake version oh the hook at `__doubles__/useBoredListFake.js` and use it in `Footer.test.js`.

Good luck!
