# RTL: React Hooks

## Introduction

Similarly to Context, it's never a bad idea to test a custom hook that is reused in a lot of places.

This time, we can test it untied from a component by using [`@testing-library/react-hooks`](https://github.com/testing-library/react-hooks-testing-library). This library allows us to test hooks with a testing experience as close as possible to as if we use it within a real component.

## Exercise

- **Test file:** `react/useBoredList.test.js`
- **Run test:** `npm run test:challenge --at=useBoredList`

There's a hook `useBoredList` already being used across the _Playground_. We want to ensure it keeps working properly even after someone in the future modifies it.

Your goal is to write the missing tests.

This hook depends on 2 modules: `metrics` and `BoredContext`. To keep things simple, start by just mocking both modules. We'll tackle fakes in the bonus part.

This exercise might get tricky. Pay close attention to the 🍀 to guide you!

## Bonus

### #1 Using Fakes

Both modules mentioned above already have a "fake" mock ready to be used. Let's refactor the test and update both mocks' implementations with the respective fakes.

Once that's done, one of the fakes will reveal a broken test (a silent bug was discovered)! Your goal is to fix the `useBoredList` and the test!

- **Test file:** `react/useBoredList-usingFake.test.js`
- **Run test:** `npm run test:challenge --at=useBoredList-usingFake`

<details>
  <summary>💡 Show Hint </summary>

The bug is related to `sendTrack`. Read its source code. You'll notice that it's expecting the key `special`. However, the component is sending a slightly different key. A typo needs to be fixed.

</details>

### #1 Create `useBoredList` fake

The `components/Footer` uses the hook `useBoredList`. A fellow colleague already started writing the component's tests.

They decide to mock the hook to keep things simple - a trade-off when a hook state is too complex to mimic, like this one. However, new bugs could happen in the integration and the mock would hide them.

Your goal is to create a fake version of the hook and to use it in `Footer` tests

- **Hook Fake file:** `react/__doubles__/useBoredListFake.js`
- **Footer test file:** `react/Footer.test.js`
- **Run test:** `npm run test:challenge --at=Footer`

## Reference

- [Article: How to test custom react Hooks](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/how-to-test-custom-react-hooks)
