# Testing UI Features

## Introduction

So far, we've learned to test in React:

- Simple React components
- Context (isolated)
- Hooks (isolated)
- Components that use hooks

What about a complete feature? By feature, I mean a big React component that put a lot of small pieces together to create the final UI.

In this stage we are way above the layer "Unit test". This is a "Integration Testing" and our focus is testing that all pieces work together. Here mocks should be the last option.

## Exercise

The _Playground_ main feature is getting a new activity based on filters applied. That's done by `ActivityGenerator.js`.

Your goal is to test that component. The essential requirements are already described in the test file. As usual, the goal is to finish the incompleted tests.

Some of the new TL queries you'll practice:

- `getByLabelText()`
- [`waitForElementToBeRemoved()`](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/api-async)
- [`within()`](https://testing-library.com/docs/dom-testing-library/api-helpers#within-and-getqueriesforelement-apis)

**Test file:** `react/ActivityGenerator.test.js`

## Bonus

### #1 Interaction simulations

When using `fireEvent`, we are simulating an event, but in a very simplified way.

For example, we use `fireEvent.change()` to fill an input. This changes the input directly but a lot of other things happens, when a real user fills an input. `mouseDown`, `focus`, `mouseUp`, `keydown`, `blur`, etc... It's way more than a "change"...

In most cases `fireEvent` works fine, but there are cases when it's not enough. That's where [`@testing-library/user-event`](https://github.com/testing-library/user-event) comes into action.

Your goal: Replace `fireEvent` with `useEvent` in this file.

Note: The package is already installed in this project, you just need to import it.

```js
import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event'
```

## References

- [Write fewer, longer tests](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/write-fewer-longer-tests)
